+++
title = "Rust, cap.so and capturing login links"
categories = ["zet"]
tags = ["zet"]
slug = "rust,-cap.so-and-capturing-login-links"
date = "2026-03-23 00:00:00 +0000 UTC"
draft = "false"
ShowToc = "true"
mermaid = "true"
+++

# Rust, cap.so and capturing login links

I recent spun up a [cap](https://cap.so) instance on my Coolify instance. It's free and open source
which is great but it has some limitations:

- Only sends magic login/sign up links 
- Only supports [Resend](https://resend.com) as the Email provider

Whilst Resend is great and has a free tier I don't want to use it. Firstly, it only supports a single domain
and it cannot be a wildcard. Secondly, I have a SMTP provider already that I like to use for this sort of stuff.

I noticed that if you don't set the Resend provider it will output the magic link code to the containers `stdout`. Not very helpful when you want to login on your phone.

It got me thinking - could I trap the login code and forward to my phone somehow?

Which is when I set Claude to work building a app to do exactly that.

I recorded a quick [video](https://youtu.be/SZs7vQHSMLY) of it in action and have the repo available on [github](https://github.com/danielmichaels/cap-link-notifier).

But basically I created a Rust app that listens to the Cap container stdout for the text containing the code and when found it sends it to my telegram channel. 

Coolify runs Cap as a docker compose file so I built a container and added it to that compose file. Now it exists within that compose network giving easy access to the docker logs.

Pretty simple and now I can login from anywhere!

Tags:

    #rust #coolify
