+++
title = "pop-os shell over i3"
categories = ["zet"]
tags = ["zet"]
slug = "pop-os-shell-over-i3"
date = "2022-10-11 00:00:00 +0000 UTC"
draft = "false"
ShowToc = "true"
+++

# pop-os shell over i3

I have been an i3 user for maybe two years now. It is a great experience,
or I should say, the good parts make for a great experience. The bad parts
make for a terrible experience (for me).

I'm not a *ricer*, I don't care about *gaps*. I just want to switch between 
panes and windows easily. In i3, I put golang in window 6, webstorm in 5 and
pycharm in 4. All my browsers go in 2 (I usually run two browsers at the
same time - Vivaldi and Opera). Email in 10, VirtualBox in 9, and so on.

This works **so** much better than Gnome or whatever's tabbing experience. Yes,
I can use workspaces but its really not the same.

In saying all this, there are some things I don't like:

- learning all the esoteric short keys
- it needs a lot of customisation
- sometimes things don't work well
- resizing things can be a pain
- I use a mouse 30-40% of the time so it needs to work

Whereas, I like Gnome's "it just works" approach. Running some applications
work much better in a Gnome environment, for instance, OBS.

Today I found [pop-os shell](https://github.com/pop-os/shell). It seems
like a great alternative. At work, I use Gnome because I need to work,
not fiddle with i3 customizations - the juice ain't worth the squeeze.
So, I installed it pop-os/shell at work and instantly fell in love with it.
It's not perfect but it basically covers my needs - I don't think I need
all that i3 provides, `shell` is enough.

The only big thing that sucks and its not `shell` its stupid as Windows.
At home I'm a linux native but at work I recently had to switch from a
linux workstation to a beefy windows box where I use VMWare to run my 
fedora VM. The thing that fucking sucks is that windows hardcodes the 
Super/Win key shortcuts, such as WIN+L (and WIN+G for XBOX crap). This 
totally breaks `shell`'s vim bindings. 

**Update**: After nearly a month of running pop-os shell, I really love it.
Its super simple and meets my needs. I do miss the switching between workspaces
using the i3 number system but other than that, everything else *Just Works*.

Tags:

    #linux #i3 #tiling #windows
