+++
title = "Slack apps"
categories = ["zet"]
tags = ["zet"]
slug = "Slack-apps"
date = "2022-11-25 00:00:00 +0000 UTC"
draft = "false"
ShowToc = "true"
mermaid = "true"
+++

# Slack apps

I'm thinking about making a slack app. I've been playing around with it
on/off for the last week and it is an impressive API surface. Documentation
is really good. Perhaps the hardest part is that most examples and tutorials
centre around Node, Python or Java. Slack provides `bolt` in those languages
but I basically refuse to write anything in python or node considering their
memory bloat and difficult package management.

Writing a Slack app using Go has not been as easy as it would be using 
python or node though. This is due to the way Slack's BlockKit is designed.
Being able to dynamically update json is much easier in those languages. Stil,
the `slack-go` library is pretty good. It's only detractor is documentation.
I've had to read source, and just try various things to get parts working.

The app I want to explore, and if viable write is a cloud platform manager.
Render, Fly, Digital Ocean, Vultr etc all provide API access and some a
full CLI. I think being able to get a read out of services, logs, billing
etc via slack would be pretty useful. This means you can check your cloud 
assets via slack from anywhere - the CLI is limited to *your* machine. It
also means you need an API on the device you're using.

A stretch goal should this be viable is to create is for several clouds. 
I think at first it would be for Render or Fly.

Lots more ideation and overall design is needed but at worst this would 
be something I'm keen on using (I use both Render and Fly).

Tags:

    #ideation #slack #go
