+++
title = "WGD Fri 2022-07-22"
categories = ["zet"]
tags = ["zet"]
slug = "WGD-Fri-2022-07-22"
date = "2022-07-22 00:00:00 +0000 UTC"
draft = "false"
ShowToc = "true"
+++

# WGD Fri 2022-07-22

## Mudmap

Released my *Multiple Accounts* feature that I've been working on for over two months!
It is now in production but the documentation and official announcement
emails are yet to go out. I actually deployed it to production sooner than
I initially planned. Nonetheless, all is well so far and can't wait to get
some feedback.

I think I've also enabled the right level of logging to identify why only
some customers are having issues installing the API on their device. In my
testing I noticed a CSRF error which caused the install to fail. No workaround
yet but keen to see if its the same thing others are experiencing.

## Misc

Played around with [Wails](https://wails.dev) and got a little
[demo](https://github.com/danielmichaels/wais-demo) done up 
using [svelte](https://svelte.dev).
So far, its basically the same process as building a typical SPA except that its self-contained
and no network latency between requests.
That's actually doing it a massive injustice, it is a great tool to build standalone
applications especially if you have web development experience. 

The last few weeks have been pretty hectic both in office hours, at home and then
the ongoing Mudmap dev. Keeping my WGD streak fell away as I prioritised other things.
Feeling back on track now and kind of missed cataloging what I've been up to. 


