+++
title = "WGD Sat 2022-05-28"
categories = ["zet"]
tags = ["zet"]
slug = "WGD-Sat-2022-05-28"
date = "2022-05-28 00:00:00 +0000 UTC"
draft = "false"
ShowToc = "true"
mermaid = "true"
+++

# WGD Sat 2022-05-28

## [Mudmap](https://mudmap.io)

- Continuing the *Mudmap Organisations* feature
- Migrating users to organisations is done
- Users in the same organisation now share devices and can create, read, update, and delete devices.
- Payment webhooks is still being ported over but is about half way done 
- Finished the Auth0 Management API client, allowing Mudmap to add to `app_metadata` fields. This
  allows Mudmap to store *some* data in the JWT which is then used in the request context.
- Working race conditions where the Auth0 data is out of sync with the database, leaving mixed
  state. This only happens on state change, i.e. a user joins a new organisation.
- Investigated why my logs have disappeared from New Relic. Nothing has changed on my end, so I
  suspect its [Render](https://render.com) not forwarding the application logs correctly. They
  appear to be coming through again - again, nothing changed on my end.
- Still toying with the idea of ripping out Postgres for Litestream and have been researching and
  reading over the many HN threads about it lately. It works for
  [tailscale](https://tailscale.com), so it'll probably work for this app.

## Misc

- Sold one of our cars this week, leaving us with only one until we can find a new one.
- Getting kicked out of our rental because the owners are selling so we're scrambling to find a new
  house within the next 6 weeks. Canberra rent has exploded so we're looking at an extra ~100 per
  week for a comparable house.

