+++
title = "WGD Fri 2022-05-13"
categories = ["zet"]
tags = ["zet"]
slug = "WGD-Fri-2022-05-13"
date = "2022-05-13 00:00:00 +0000 UTC"
draft = "false"
ShowToc = "true"
mermaid = "true"
+++

# WGD Fri 2022-05-13

This week has been all about research, proof-of-concept's and database migrations.

## Mudmap

My biggest customer has been asking for Mudmap to support multiple users under a single
account. Last week, they really put a fire under my feet saying they need it, and won't be
pushing the rest of their devices onto the platform until its done. In terms of numbers, it
equates to about a 900% increase in billable units. So, it is worth dropping everything else to
make this a reality.

I spent this week testing my assumptions, writing documents (mostly fleshing out my ideas) and
some of the migration files needed. This also includes the initial models files on the backend.

## zet-cmd

This week I pushed some updates and fixes to my zettelkasten CLI tool. I typically read the zet's
using vim but sometimes it is nice to format them to the terminal nicely instead. As a regular
user of [gh](https://github.com/cli/cli), I noticed their markdown renderer was quite
beautiful. So, I looked through the `go.mod` and found the package by [charmbracelet] called
[glamour]. The [pull request][pr22] was pretty simple. I also [tidied][pr21] up some things that after
some use made `zet-cmd` feel unnatural.

## Old friends

Also caught up with a mate I've not seen in a couple of years. Now that the travel restrictions
are lifting, more and more people I know are filtering through Canberra. It was a great evening
reminiscing.

## Backups to Cloud

I had over 250GB of files which have been sitting on a single external HDD just waiting to get
corrupted. I've wanted to push them to my cloud storage for a while but lacked a good way of doing
a. This week I found [rclone](https://rclone.org). What an easy and fool-proof experience. It took
a couple of days to sync but was largely set and forget. It was cool showing my girlfriend GoPro
video of use jumping out of planes into the ocean too. I did that stuff for nearly ten years and she
still has really no idea of what I did day to day.


[pr22]: https://github.com/danielmichaels/zet-cmd/pull/22
[pr21]: https://github.com/danielmichaels/zet-cmd/pull/21
[glamour]: https://github.com/charmbracelet/glamour
[charmbracelet]: https://github.com/charmbracelet

Tags:

    #wgd
