+++
title = "WGD Fri 2022-06-03"
categories = ["zet"]
tags = ["zet"]
slug = "WGD-Fri-2022-06-03"
date = "2022-06-03 00:00:00 +0000 UTC"
draft = "false"
ShowToc = "true"
+++

# WGD Fri 2022-06-03

## [Mudmap]

- Refactored codebase to make better use of the `internal` package.
  [1](https://dave.cheney.net/2019/10/06/use-internal-packages-to-reduce-your-public-api-surface)
- Started work on the frontend; Organisations and Users are now displayed in the settings pages.
  These pages are restricted according to the user privileges. 
- Added gzip supported middleware. I haven't profiled it but the content size is significantly
  reduced. 

## Misc

Watched Top Gun 2. It's an entertaining movie with some cool action shots. Definitely worth
watching if you enjoyed the first one.

Saw a really cool idea whilst at bunnings over the weekend. Side note, I fixed my tallboys draw runners like a
real man. It was a QR code system for notating what's in storage containers. You slap a QR stick
on it, scan it and add its contents to the web page.

As a developer, I immediately thought I could write that. Which, I actually might but as a self
hosted open source project. You could deploy it to heroku or fly and never pay a cent. How often
and how fast does something like this need to be, especially when you are the only user. 

Also, I got to start on a Go project at work. It's replacing a often used compliance tool which
scans the contents of packages written in Java. The only caveat, it's a *side project* and can't
get in the way of my day to day work. I'll take it though as I get to work on an interesting
problem in Go and get paid handsomely for it.

Tags:

    #wgd #mudmap

