+++
title = "WGD 2022-05-20"
categories = ["zet"]
tags = ["zet"]
slug = "WGD-2022-05-20"
date = "2022-05-20 00:00:00 +0000 UTC"
draft = "false"
ShowToc = "true"
mermaid = "true"
+++

# WGD 2022-05-20

Still working on Mudmap's switch from single user accounts to multiple
accounts per organisation.

## Mudmap

I'm making a lot of progress on the transition from the one user one 
account model. I've had to create extra tables, migrate users and devices
between them whilst ensuring backwards compatibility. I think the changes
to the database models are done for this section of changes - permissions
will come next.

I learned how to write Postgres subqueries this week and it's pretty 
cool seeing a complex query execute repeatedly without issue.

User and organisation (what I'm calling *accounts*) data is stored in 
the database but a couple of items are being used in `context.Values`.
Doing this prevents Mudmap from having to do queries for user or organisation
data when accessing other related data. I understand that it is a slight
anti-pattern but I feel it's actually a good use case for it.
Using `context` also allows for storing certain keys in the authentication
token. Again, it saves extra queries.

I've been using [go-resty](https://github.com/go-resty/resty) for making
and receiving HTTP requests inside Mudmap. In the past I've written HTTP
clients using just the standard lib but `resty` provides a few things I 
need almost out of the box. Namely, retries and *interceptors*. When 
a token expires, `resty` is configured to automatically re-authenticate
by sending a POST to the auth backend. I could write that myself but I'm
running a business and don't have time for that!

Also got to play with some Go Mutex's this week too. Have not really
had a need to implement any until now, and it's pretty easy. Three lines
of code will get you pretty far.

```go
// contrived example
var mu sync.Mutex
mu.Lock()
defer mu.Unlock
```

## Work

Had some huge wins at work this week. Our team got a lot of kudo's for 
the work we've been putting it too. No rest though, straight from one
fire to the next. So far, I've worked on Django, Angular and Android
this week alone. Its enough to scatter a man's brain. 
