+++
title = "Alpine.js and Tailwind HTML setup"
categories = ["golang", "alpine", "tailwind"]
tags = ["til", "golang"]
slug = "Alpine.js and Tailwind HTML setup"
date = "2022-03-12"
draft = "false"
ShowToc = "true"
+++

# Plain HTML with Alpine and Tailwind CSS

Today I set up a Go project using [Tailwind] and [Alpine.js]. This web application uses Go 
templates so there was no need for any React or other javascript frontend. I did want dropdowns 
and to use tailwind without a CDN. This meant I needed to install some NPM packages and include 
some javascript to facilitate the dropdowns.

This is the minimum requirement to get a basic Tailwind and Alpine system set up for a simple Go 
web application - it could extend to any other language but is not tested.

## Pre-amble

This project is laid out with the static files and html inside a directory named `ui` within 
their own directories.

Before the setup and initialisation of Alpine and Tailwind, the directory looks something like 
this. 

```shell
ui
├── html
│   ├── base.layout.tmpl
│   ├── footer.partial.tmpl
│   ├── home.page.tmpl
│   └── navbar.partial.tmpl
├── static
│   ├── css
│   │   └── main.css
│   └── js
└── ui.go
```

## Installing and compiling Tailwind

First thing to do is install Tailwind. I use `yarn` but I've used `npm` here because its more 
widely used.

```shell
npm install -D tailwindcss 
# I also installed these tailwind plugins which I needed for the layout
#npm install -D @tailwindcss/forms @tailwind/aspect-ration
npx tailwindcss init
```

This creates a `tailwind.config.js` file which needs to be updated to reflect our directory 
structure and template file types. 

```json 
module.exports = {
  content: ["./ui/**/*tmpl"], <-- THIS IS IMPORTANT
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  plugins: [
      require('@tailwindcss/aspect-ratio'),
      require('@tailwindcss/forms'),
  ],
}
```

What tripped me up was the `content: []` block. My Go templates use the following naming 
convention; `<name>.<type>.tmpl`. The types are `layout`,`page` and `partial` but it always ends 
with `tmpl`. Initially, I was using `.html` because I wasn't paying attention and copying other 
guides. This time I am catching all `tmpl` files inside the `ui` folder. 

I then created a `npm script` block entry into the `package.json` file.

```json 
{
  "scripts": {
    "build-css": "tailwindcss -i ui/static/css/main.css -o ui/static/css/theme.css -m",
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "@tailwindcss/aspect-ratio": "^0.4.0",
    "@tailwindcss/forms": "^0.5.0",
  }
}
```

`build-css` will create a file called `theme.css` in the `ui/static/css` directory which is then 
referenced inside my `base.layout.tmpl` template. The `-m` minifies it, which I do for prod and 
dev because this file is never touched.

The above step is predicated on the existence of a file called `main.css` inside the 
`ui/static/css` directory. For clarity my `main.css` looks like this:

```css
" https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation - Step #3
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

Alternatively, you could run just run the compiler (`build-css`) in a bash script, CI pipeline 
or Dockerfile. 

## Alpine.js Set up

Next, bundle up Alpine inside the application without needed to use the CDN. 

```shell
npm install alpinejs esbuild
```

Alpine needs to be instantiated, so I created an `index.js` at the root of the directory and 
called Alpine.

```js
import Alpine from 'alpinejs';

window.Alpine = Alpine;

Alpine.start();
```

Then I add an extra script to the `package.json` which will compile Alpine using Esbuild and 
drop it into the `ui/static/js` directory. Alpine, like tailwind is minified because I am not 
altering it in any way.

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "build-css": "tailwindcss -i ui/static/css/main.css -o ui/static/css/theme.css -m",
    "alpine": "npx esbuild index.js --outfile=ui/static/js/bundle.js --bundle --minify" # New
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "@tailwindcss/aspect-ratio": "^0.4.0",
    "@tailwindcss/forms": "^0.5.0",
    "tailwindcss": "^3.0.23"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "alpinejs": "^3.9.1", # New
    "esbuild": "^0.14.25" # New
  }
}
```

## Testing it out

Remove any references to Tailwind or Alpine's CDN and replace them with the location of `theme.
css` and `bundle.js` respectively. Refreshing the application page should render everything 
correctly and any Alpine widgets should work. 

The best part is the application is completely portable. For clarity, this application is using 
Go [embedded files](https://blog.carlmjohnson.net/post/2021/how-to-use-go-embed/) so that it is 
self-contained. After running `go build` you will be able to run it completely isolated and have 
the CSS and JS work as expected. 

[tailwind]: https://tailwindcss.com
[alpine.js]: https://alpinejs.dev
